[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately involved
with UFO-related intelligence.
Today, we're discussing
the Aberystwyth incident
in Wales, United Kingdom.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: So what can you
tell us about this incident?
>>DOTY: In the early morning
hours of January 11 of 1983,
an object was tracked on
radar from Hofn Air Force
Station in Iceland, all the way
down towards the United Kingdom.
This object flew across
St. George's Strait,
flew over a farmer's
residence in Aberystwyth,
which is on the western side of
the United Kingdom, in Wales.
We think it hit some
trees and crashed.
But after a crash, it was
able to somehow repair
itself and fly--
attempt to fly away.
The next morning, he
called the police,
who responded and realized
that this debris field wasn't
a conventional aircraft.
So they immediately notified
the Royal Air Force,
and they responded.
They looked at the debris.
And they thought, well,
this isn't conventional.
We can't figure out where
these pieces came from.
So they took some of the pieces.
A Ministry of Defense,
or MOD, representative
responded, a scientist,
looked at the debris and said,
we can't figure out
where this came from.
And therefore, we're
going to have to do
some more analysis of that.
After that, OSI became involved.
>>EMERY: Well, the crash
is in Wales, United Kingdom
and why is Air Force Office
of Special Investigations
called in?
>>DOTY: Well, as I
said earlier, something
was tracked on radar from
Iceland down to the UK.
The United States Air Force
knew something was flying.
But they couldn't
identify what it was.
Not only did it come off
radar around Aberystwyth,
it also flew over the
Saint George's Straits
and disappeared.
And we had some US
Navy ships in the area
tracking Soviet submarines.
And these two ships that were
tracking the Soviet submarine
saw this object fly over
and go into the ocean.
So that's why OSI
became involved.
>>EMERY: OK.
So is AFOSI called
on every one of these
types of scenarios
where a craft is downed,
not just in our country,
but it seems like they
are in other countries.
Are they worldwide?
>>DOTY: Yes, OSI is worldwide.
They have detachments
all over the world.
Back in those days,
they had detachments,
even at embassies
in countries where
there wasn't military bases.
And they had a special projects
branch dealt exclusively
with extraterrestrial
crafts or contacts.
So OSI was the lead
agency in responding
to these kind of events.
And during this
time period, there
was an Air Force base
not far from there.
And it was called RAF Fairford
because all bases in the United
Kingdom where the Air Force
personnel were stationed
were still the Royal
Air Force bases.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: And that's why they
call them RAF Fairford.
And the detachment, the 62nd,
40th OSI detachment at Fairford
was the one that responded to
the Aberystwyth crash site.
>>EMERY: How far was
that from that base?
>>DOTY: It was probably 15
or 20 miles from Fairford.
And OSI agents went
there and interviewed
Mr. Evans, who was the farmer
that discovered this crash site.
>>EMERY: Why did Mr. Evans
wait till the morning?
>>DOTY: I don't know that
he had ever explained that.
But OSI arrived after
RAF and MOD arrived.
Several days later,
we knew what this
was because we had more
information about the object
because of the radar contact
than the civilian police
or the RAF.
So we went to visited
Mr. Evans and asked
him questions
about what he heard
and what happened on his farm.
And that's how OSI became
involved with Mr. Evans.
And that's why we
interfaced with him.
And that's what he told us.
And we went on from
there to investigate.
>>EMERY: What did you find
out about the debris, what
it's made out of?
>>DOTY: Well, when the RAF
got there days earlier,
they picked up some debris.
But they didn't
pick up all of it.
There was a rock-fenced
area west of the farmhouse.
And they never searched that
area when OSI got there,
they searched the entire area.
And they found more debris
into this rock fence.
In UK, it's not uncommon
to see fences made of rock.
>>EMERY: Right.
Of course.
>>DOTY: And they found some
larger debris in that area.
And OSI recovered that
debris, knowing-- remember,
OSI already knew this was an
unidentified flying object
because they tracked
it from Iceland
all the way down to Wales.
But they didn't know
exactly what it was.
>>EMERY: But you guys
figured it out, what it is.
>>DOTY: Well, based
on the examination
of the debris that
the OSI found, now,
it wasn't until much
later that the OSI
got hold of the RAF debris.
But the OSI found debris was
taken to a base and analyzed.
And based on the OSI's knowledge
of extraterrestrial crafts,
we immediately identified this
as an extraterrestrial craft.
And therefore, that's why
OSI was so interested in this
and why it crashed and what
other debris was left there
on the scene.
So additional OSI agents
responded back to that farmhouse
and did a detailed search
and found more debris,
including a piece of
debris that was in a tree
that nobody had found
until OSI came in
with some special equipment.
And they found a larger piece of
an object, which they determined
to be some sort of a sensor
because it was probably
on the outside of this craft.
Now, jump ahead to when the
United States Navy ships, going
through the channel there,
saw this craft come over
and go into the water.
So after that, a
recovery operation.
The USS Gopher, which
was a salvage ship,
was brought in along with some
other ships and a submarine.
And they found the craft
at a depth of 600 feet
in the St. George channel.
>>EMERY: Did they
find any bodies?
>>DOTY: Well, during
the recovery operation,
as they were bringing
the US Navy-- this was
a secret recovery operation.
They didn't let the
British know or anyone else
know what they were doing.
It was strictly a
US Navy operation
with the USS Alamo, USS Gopher,
which is a salvage ship.
And they brought this craft up.
It was only about a
15-foot diameter craft.
As they got this craft up on
the deck of the USS Gopher,
suddenly, without
an explanation,
the hatch opened up.
But when the hatch
opened, no water
came out, so they
figured it was airtight.
Oh, what are they
going to do now?
Are they going to go in, send
sailors inside that craft?
The commander of the
ship said, no, we're
not going to send anybody in.
Because number one, we
have no idea what this is.
We don't know if there's any
dangers in there or any fumes.
They would have to
have special equipment.
And they didn't have it on
that ship because it was--
>>EMERY: A salvage.
>>DOTY: --a salvage ship.
So they had to wait several days
for other ships, US Navy ships,
to get there with a team.
The Spang Air Base
in Germany was
a DART team, an SDART, a Special
Downed Aircraft Recovery team.
They sent, I think, a
five-person team to the ship.
And they had a special equipment
to go inside that ship.
When they went inside
that ship, there
was no extraterrestrials
in there.
It was almost like
as if this was
a remote-operated
extraterrestrial craft.
>>EMERY: No sign of
life at all in there?
>>DOTY: No sign
of life in there.
They had a lot of equipment
that we had never seen before.
And so immediately, this
became very, very interesting
to US scientists.
>>EMERY: So did
they ever find out
if there were any ETs
associated with this?
And if so, where are they from?
>>DOTY: No, they didn't find
any ETs inside the craft.
They actually sent, I believe,
submersible vehicles down.
600 feet is not really deep.
Submarines went down,
surveyed the area
because they thought
maybe the bodies came out,
maybe somehow as it went into
the water, the bodies were--
>>EMERY: Ejected.
>>DOTY: --hauled from the craft
or something to that effect.
Well, they didn't find anything.
And they found that there was
no water inside that craft.
So therefore, if
the hatch had opened
when it went into
the water, there
would have been water
inside this craft.
There was no seawater
inside this craft,
no seating for any kind
of extraterrestrials,
no navigation equipment, and
also no known propulsion system.
>>EMERY: Was it seamless?
Was it buttons?
Was there TVs, screens?
>>DOTY: There was no screens--
>>EMERY: No nothing.
>>DOTY: --no buttons,
no switches, no pedals.
>>EMERY: What color
was it inside?
>>DOTY: It was gray--
dark gray inside.
And so then immediately after it
was analyzed by the DART team--
>>EMERY: Yeah, where
was it taken to?
>>DOTY: Nevada
Test Site, Area 51.
They did a very
exclusive examination
because they'd never seen
one like this before.
>>EMERY: Did they find anything
interesting that's different.
>>DOTY: Well, they
found that it operated
on a number of
different frequencies
that were pretty close
to our frequencies, which
meant that maybe it was not
an extraterrestrial craft.
Maybe it was a craft from
Earth, from some country.
But as they started
taking this thing apart,
they found some
strange-looking characters,
which are not from Earth.
They're not Chinese characters
or Japanese, Korean, Mongolian,
and also no language
or characters
that we ever have found in
any other crafts that crashed.
So what does this mean?
This means that this
craft was unique.
It was from an
extraterrestrial civilization
that we've never
encountered before.
Which one?
We don't know.
>>EMERY: Where were
those characters
located inside the craft?
>>DOTY: As they were
taking the equipment apart,
they found them
on the floorboard,
almost as if it was
instructions on something.
There's quite a few characters--
I mean, three or
four lines of it.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
>>DOTY: And so they
figured it was maybe
some instructions or something
because they weren't visible.
They were buried under
some of the equipment.
So they figured it
was something else.
Well, they tried to trace
the language to Earth.
There's nothing comparable
to that on Earth,
so the only thing
they can think of
was a craft from
another civilization
that we have never
encountered before.
We couldn't find any type of
propulsion system on this craft,
although naval
personnel saw it flying.
It crashed because we
found pieces of it.
And we saw and
tracked it on radar.
So we knew it flew.
We knew it had some kind
of an avionics systems that
allowed it to fly.
And it must have been
propelled by some technology.
But during that time period
in early '80s, we didn't have
the technology
that we have today.
Jump ahead--
>>EMERY: Right.
I was about to say,
what's going on?
>>DOTY: Jump ahead
a couple decades,
and we found this to be
something that we later
had found in an occupied
craft from an extraterrestrial
civilization.
>>EMERY: That was
inside a craft?
>>DOTY: Yeah, that
had recently--
and this was in
the early 2000s--
had visited Earth.
>>EMERY: Was there
any technology
recovered from the
craft, inside the craft,
that you could talk about?
>>DOTY: A plethora
of alien technology
was found in this craft.
Because every piece
of equipment that
was taken out of
that craft, once it
got to the facility, Area 51,
was taken apart as much as
could be taken apart and
examined and compared
to other extraterrestrial
technology that we had.
So we had in our hands an
extraterrestrial technology
from a civilization that
we've never encountered.
So that was a big deal to us.
We did find extraterrestrial
technology in that craft.
And now what do we do with it?
How do we compare?
Can we reverse-engineering?
And some of the
things they found
in this craft, that was
comparable to something
that we had.
So what does that mean?
That maybe whoever created this
craft, whoever made this craft,
had visited Earth and maybe even
lived here billions of years ago
and used some technology that
maybe been handed down to us.
I'm just guessing on that part.
>>EMERY: Sure.
Yeah.
>>DOTY: It was--
I can't say similar, but some
things like our technology.
Because we could look
at a box over here
that could very well have been
some sort of an altimeter.
So that's the type
of alien technology
that was found in that
craft that really opened up
our understanding of other
extraterrestrial civilizations'
technologies.
>>EMERY: What other
examples did you find?
>>DOTY: Well, there were tanks
in there, which pressurized
the inside of this craft.
Now, if there's no
extraterrestrial flying this
that we know of--
>>EMERY: Yeah, why would they?
>>DOTY: --why would they
have these pressurization
tanks inside there?
Maybe because the equipment
required it to be pressurized.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: Because if it's flying
from one atmosphere to another,
there's pressurization
that is going
to occur within this craft.
Gravity, antigravity
has to occur.
And so maybe these tanks
equalized the pressure
inside this craft, allowing
this equipment to work properly.
The other theory is because of
the pressurization tanks found,
maybe extraterrestrials
were in this craft,
and somehow they
dematerialized or was
able to disappear in
some manner because they
knew it was going to crash.
And so they got out
of the craft some way
that we just can't understand,
dematerialization or something
like that.
So those are the questions.
And without the
extraterrestrials
and without our knowledge
of that technology,
we couldn't answer
those questions.
>>EMERY: Is it possible,
do you believe that when
that hatch opened, that they
were using some sort of cloaking
device to exit?
>>DOTY: Yeah, absolutely.
That wasn't even thought
about until years later
when scientists--
because we had advanced our
technology to think about that.
>>EMERY: Right.
We weren't at that level.
>>DOTY: Yeah, we
weren't at that level.
These sailors are
on board this ship.
This craft is brought
to the ship from cranes.
And then suddenly,
this hatch opens.
Now, what happened
in that millisecond,
those extraterrestrials
could have left.
And we didn't know it,
and we didn't see it.
That's highly possible.
But unless we understood
alien technology
or got a hold of an
extraterrestrial that
was inside that craft,
we'll never know.
>>EMERY: Rick, did we learn
anything about their propulsion
system on the craft?
>>DOTY: Or lack of--
>>EMERY: Or lack of, right?
>>DOTY: --propulsion system.
We, at the time, in the '80s,
couldn't find a propulsion
system.
Jump ahead, we think it was some
sort of a propulsion system that
didn't use anything that
we're familiar with,
any propellants,
a gas, or fuels.
They found some tanks and
some other things in there
that they couldn't
ever determine
what they were used for.
But because the fact
that people saw it fly
and it obviously got
from point A to point B,
that somehow there was a
propulsion system that we just
can't figure out
how it was used.
>>EMERY: Rick, you did
mention years later
that there was a similar
craft with beings in it
that was recovered.
Can you elaborate on that
and make a connection or?
>>DOTY: Yeah, we found
that 10 or 15 years later,
there was a craft in the 1990s
that had crashed in the United
States.
That technology was
exactly the same technology
as the one we found
off the coast of UK.
But that craft that
crashed in the Utah area
had extraterrestrials on board.
And these extraterrestrials,
four of them,
were not described in
this particular report
that I had access to
or by the OSI agents
that investigated that craft
or was at the crash scene.
Now, that tells me
that there's something
unique about those
extraterrestrials found
in that craft that are so highly
classified that they're not even
mentioning in the report.
>>EMERY: Well, it
seems like there's
a lot of crashing going on.
What's your belief?
Are we taking these craft out?
Or are they having malfunctions?
What's going on?
>>DOTY: Some of them
we have shot down.
There are cases on the annals
of the UFO classified documents
from DIA showing that an
aircraft was launched on alert
and shot down.
Back in the early '90s,
there was one that shot down.
Japanese Air Defense Force
went up, shot this thing down,
thinking it might have been
a Russian, but it was not.
And they recovered it.
There are a lot of
cases like that.
And there's cases where we
think because of something we
have done with either radar
or microwave bursts, that
disrupts their avionics systems,
that causes them to crash.
And then there's other theories
that our atmosphere is unique.
If you ask an
astrophysicist, isn't it
just normal, our atmosphere?
No, if you compare
our atmosphere
to all the different
planets in our solar system,
they don't have the same
atmosphere as we do.
We have a Van Allen's belt
that protects our planet
from radiation.
Other planets don't have that.
You can go to mercury,
Venus, Mars, Saturn.
They don't have that.
So we have a unique atmosphere.
And when an
extraterrestrial craft
comes from millions of
miles or light years
into our solar system, sees our
planet that might be populated
and decides, let's
enter it and find out
what it is, they get
into our atmosphere.
And some things could
interfere with the operation
of that craft,
including radiation
or some other
atmospheric condition
that we have unique
on this planet that
could disrupt the operation of
those extraterrestrial craft,
causing them to crash.
>>EMERY: So to better understand
these exotic materials
and beings, have they ever
called in the remote viewers,
the psychics, the intuitives?
>>DOTY: There were
a number of cases
where they brought in remote
viewers to try to remote view
the interior of the craft,
location and where it came from,
origination point, or
where it was going to.
And that is probably
so highly classified
that I wouldn't
have access to it.
And even the agents that
tell me these stories
wouldn't have access to it.
I mean, there's
former remote viewers
who came out and said, yes,
we did try to remote view
this craft.
One particular craft they found,
they couldn't even open it.
They tried for a long time, I
guess years, trying to open it.
They bring in a
remote viewer to try
to remote view what's
inside that thing
because we can't get it open.
So that's happened.
>>EMERY: Are they part
of a military program,
these remote viewers, like
Project Stargate and all that?
>>DOTY: Yes, these remote
viewers were all in Stargate
during that time period.
>>EMERY: Do you think that
Project Stargate is still
ongoing, even though
they changed the name?
>>DOTY: They terminated
Stargate in the 1990s.
And the DIA, the CIA
wanted something better
than remote viewing.
Because remote viewing is
probably only 60% to 70%
accurate.
It's not any more than that.
Sometimes a remote viewer
can get up to about 80%, 85%,
and then sometimes he can't
even get 10% or 20% accurate.
So they needed something more
than just remote viewing.
So I guess they went through
a number of different programs
bringing in psychics and
other remote viewers.
And they developed
another technique
called Thought Projection
Acquisition, TPA,
which I think was developed
and finalized in 2010.
The first group of
these experiencers,
they call them, the TPA
guys, went through that.
And that's what they have today.
And I guess that's probably
80% to 90% accurate.
>>EMERY: What's OSI's
responsibility at these crash
sites?
>>DOTY: Well, OSI's
responsibility
under the special
projects branch
is to investigate
these crash sites,
and then try to conduct a
counterintelligence operation
through deception.
If there was a lot of
people in that area
or the public
seeing this, now OSI
has a generated program, a
counterintelligence program,
to disinform these people and
try to explain or convince them
that what they
saw, even though it
might have been
extraterrestrial,
was, in fact, one of ours.
And I've been involved in
that many different times.
And that's what OSI's job is
there, even after the fact.
There's been cases where a craft
was found by miners in Nevada.
And weeks went by before
the miners, because
of the remote location,
were able to tell people
about what they saw and
what they had out there.
OSI still went in there.
And their plan was
to disinform them.
And they can do it in a
number of different ways.
The deception operations are
explaining or threatening them.
Whatever the case
may be and whatever
the particular operational plan
is, is what OSI will operate on.
And they'll do whatever
they can to disinform
the people that whatever they
saw wasn't extraterrestrial.
It was, in fact, one of ours.
>>EMERY: Rick, well, I have to
ask you before we wrap it up
here, is there
anything else you'd
like to mention that I
didn't ask you about,
that you can think
of, that you'd like
to share with the audience?
>>DOTY: Well, one of the things
is that I think, during the time
frame that this incident
happened in 1983,
UK wasn't notified
of the operation.
But we know that--
Nick Pope and some
other people, know
that years later, the UK
government, specifically
the Ministry of Defense,
was notified of what we did
and what we found
in the channel.
Whether we told the United
Kingdom anything technical,
I wouldn't know
that information.
But we did inform
them of our recovery.
>>EMERY: That was
after the fact?
>>DOTY: After the fact.
Many years after the fact.
>>EMERY: Oh, many years?
OK.
So this craft and
the other craft
that was similar
that you guys found,
the species that
were involved, you
said back then we didn't know.
How about today?
Do we know this species yet?
>>DOTY: To the best
of my knowledge,
that hasn't been released.
I'm sure the government knows.
It's locked up deeply
within the DIA or OSI.
And it hasn't been leaked out.
These questions have been
asked by not only myself,
but many of the people,
including OSI agents,
retired OSI agents that
investigated these cases.
But they were never told
because, as I said earlier,
when they found this craft
that was similar, one that they
recovered off the
coast of the UK,
the reports didn't specify what
species was inside that craft
that was found later in Utah.
So the confusion is, OK,
they're all the same crafts.
One had bodies in,
the other one didn't.
What species was that?
Nobody's talking about that.
I'm sure it's locked
away someplace,
but I have no access to that.
>>EMERY: Wow, very
compartmentalized for sure.
>>DOTY: Very compartmentalized.
>>EMERY: Very intriguing.
Well, Rick, thanks so much
for being on the show.
It's a fascinating story.
>>DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]